# Website Technology Documentation
## 1.1.1 Background Information on the Project
The website I have created is a Hair Care blog. For a while, my partner has considered trying to become a ‘Hair Blogger’ in her personal time as hair care is something she really cares about. Over the past year she has done a tonne of research into her hair type and how to keep it healthy. She then took to Instagram and created an account to post images of her hair at its different stages. After a month or so she managed to gain 100+ followers and decided to write to a blog to help people who were in her situation a year ago. She felt that a lot of people want to get their hair looking healthy, but don’t have the time or money to try things out. The blog will tell the story her and her hair have gone through, inspiring others to go on a journey with their hair. There will also be a “Contact Me” page so that if any readers wish to know more, they can. 
## 1.1.2 Wire Frames
In the same directory tree as this document is a folder named Wireframes, there you can find the wire frame models of the website for both mobile and desktop site.
## 1.1.3 Color Choices
The color scheme for this website was easy to choose, as the Instagram account my partner uses for her hair is called “Jadie Lavender”. So, it only makes sense to choose a color scheme with lavender or light purple in. At first, I used a block color throughout the web pages, but this made the website seem outdated. I then had the idea to use a slight gradient in the background color to give it a more modern feel. I used the base color of her Logo as a starting point. Using a hex color picker I slightly lightened the base color and set that as the second color. I lightened the secondary color again to give a tertiary color which would go in the middle of the web pages. The gradient starts dark, gets a little lighter, gets more lighter, goes back to darker and finishes on the same color as the Logo. Paired with a white font color, I think this color scheme gives an elegant and refined look to the web pages that doesn’t detract from the content.
## 1.1.4 Accessibility 
To conform with W3C, I used their Nu Html Checker (found here - https://validator.w3.org/ ) this goes through the html of a webpage and spots any errors, I used the upload file option. The Home page only had a few issues, some ids needed to be changed to classes and there were comments that needed taken out. I also got a colleague (who is a web developer turned software engineer) to code review it. More information and screenshots can be found at Documentation/W3C_Compliance_Evidence.
## 1.1.5 GDPR
I created a simple privacy policy web page, if this were a webaite being used in the real world, I would hire a lawyer to write the privacy policy and I would just format the provacy policy in html to continue with the theme. If the data was stored, when the reader submits their personal information an auto-reply email will be sent to them containing a link to information concerining the 8 individual rights. According to https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/individual-rights/ the website has one month to send information regarding the 8 individual rights, so an auto-reply email with an embeded link seems the easiest way as that allows people who are interested in the legal side of the website to read up on it, but abstracts it away from the majority of customers who won't care.
### 
The form on the website is already an opt-in form as their data won't be sent untill they click "submit".
## 1.1.6 Distance Selling
Currently, no money gets taken from the readers so distance selling doesn't apply here.
## 1.1.7 Evaluation
The reason for creating the website was to create a place for my partner to write about her hair journey and for others to read it and be inspired. I would say I tackled a good 80% of the problem. The other 20% lies more with the back end of the website for example, it would be nice to have a set up the submit button to send an email to a dedicated email address containing the information that the reader entered. I would have also been good to implement an auto-reply email to the reader; when they press submit, they get an email saying something thanks for getting in contact I will reply shortly.  The other 5% would be sorting out legal documentation needed for the website (as data would be stored). A privacy policy would need to be written up and then made accessible to the readers, I have created a short privacy policy for the current website and is doesn’t store any data it just says that, this doesn’t have any legal accuracies and couldn’t be used as a defence in a court of law.
### 
One of the biggest problems I encountered was trying to get the hamburger menu to look good on the mobile version of the website. This took about 7 hours to research and implement correctly. At one point, if you look through the GitHub commit history, you’ll see I gave up on the hamburger menu all together and commented it out. I then went on a website on my phone and saw the implementation of the hamburger menu, so I jumped on my PC to inspect the page and see how they did it. Once I combined the knowledge, I got from inspecting the page and all the videos/ forums I read early in the week I manages to make the menu look good. I also learnt how to get the menu to stay at the top of the screen when scrolling. I also got stuck on trying to dynamically resize the 3 images found on the homepage. Every time I would shrink the webpage the photos would stay the same size and exceed the containing div.’s boundaries.
### 
I started testing the webpage on different devices by using the responsive design mode through the inspector on Firefox. This got me through testing the CSS making look good for most of the time, however I did use my phone iPad and iMac as testing devices to ensure the webpages looked good on the actual devices. Using my phone, I managed to catch a formatting error I missed using responsive design. The issue was the text area on the “contact me” form I didn’t realise they don’t dynamically resize so when it was on a mobile device it had more columns than the device could handle; this pushed the submit button down into the social media link footer. It didn’t look nice to say the least (it probably wasn’t functional too).
My design chose was directed by my partner, I treated her as the key stakeholder of a project. I gathered requirements from her and drew up a wireframe diagram to see if she liked it. If she didn’t, I would have asked her what she was looking for and implement that. Luckily, she did like how it looked, probably because it is a very simple and refined design. I find that with websites, less is more. The websites of my childhood were horrible, they were blocky, had ads everywhere and the color schemes didn’t even match sometimes. I tried my hardest to avoid the design of websites I had to look at when I was younger. By having a simple design, it allows the reader to concentrate on the content making it easy for them to navigate through the website was key.

### Word Count
1247